this feels like dangerous territory an
endless battle waged to be ended
[Music]
so today it is italian versus american
aka new york pizza let's go piss people
off from got dang two different freaking
continents what are you gonna do about
that i know there's a lot of different
american pizzas and there's a lot of
different italian pizzas all right we
picked two of my personal favorites new
york and neapolitan
they're both great pizzas so for the
record before we even do this let's have
it be a clean fight does that be a
respectful fight and let's understand
that pizza is delicious in many forms
and i know that some people feel that
the new york pizza is not a real pizza
so let's define it today so with all
that being said let's make this shall we
so it's time we've got two very
different doughs mr italiano which is
just flour water salt yeast and the
american version containing not only
sugar but also being fermented
completely different with significantly
more yeast in a different type of flour
first let's start off with the american
pie in a container uh containing 617
grams of water add 14 grams of instant
yeast and 25 grams of granulated sugar
an italian pizza dough skin whisk that
together and set to the side separately
get a large bowl filled with 950 grams
of all-purpose flour another italian
scent now mix in 19 grams of fine sea
salt by hand till combined pour your
sugar yeasties into your flour mixture
mix it by hand until you get a rough
dough and then knead on a clean work
surface until it starts to easily pull
away from said work surface and you have
a relatively smooth dough grease a bowl
pop it into that greased bowl let that
rise for one and a half to two hours at
room temp or until two and a half times
its original size punch it down divide
it into 300 gram pieces lightly form
into balls pop that into a pizza
proofing box top of the lid and proof
for three to four hours at room temp
that's your got dang
american do
now moving on to i know i know settle
down italians we love ya
anyway get yourself 512 grams of water
whisk in three to four grams of instant
yeast until dissolved much less than
before separately in a large bowl filled
with 800 grams of devlo tepo flour not
all purpose keep it italiano to that
you'll add 16 grams of fine sea salt mix
it by hand till combined add your yeasty
juice and mix by hand until you get a
rough dough need that for five to seven
minutes or until you get a beautifully
smooth and supple dough now lightly coat
the bottom of your bowl with super duper
virgin olive oil form your dough into a
lightly taut ball plop into your big old
bowl cover tightly with plastic wrap and
place in the fridge for 24 hours now
once that's done punch it down form
these into more dainty 250 gram pieces
gently roll those into light balls pop
into a floured pizza proofing box cover
with the lid and proof for three to four
hours at room temp now while those are
going we'll make our american pizza
sauce which ironically is the most
involved in a medium sauce pot add 1
tablespoon or 14 grams of unsalted
butter one tablespoon or nine grams of
extra virgin olive oil let that heat and
once the butter is melted and bubbling
add in six cloves of rough chopped
garlic saute just until fragrant then
add two teaspoons or four grams of red
pepper flakes i like a little spicy
alright now let that cook stirring
occasionally until the garlic is golden
brown toasted then immediately add in a
28 ounce can of crushed tomatoes in a
splash of water then to that you'll add
two teaspoons or two grams of dried
oregano one and a half tablespoons or 21
grams of italians plug your ears
granulated sugar salt and pepper to
taste and a light glug of olive oil
bring that up to a boil on medium-high
immediately reduce the heat to low and
simmer for 12 minutes stirring
occasionally until reduced and viscous
like this beauty right here season that
with salt until it's to your liking let
that cool and that's your american pie
sauce next up the italiano this one's
significantly easier and simpler so get
yourself a 20 ounce can of whole peeled
italian san marzano tomatoes drain the
liquid out of those and then gently
squeeze each tomato to remove their
excess water in a food processor place
just those whole tomatoes along with
three to four cloves of peeled garlic
fresh ground black pepper and salt to
taste and two tablespoons or 18 grams of
your best olive oil blend that on high
until as smooth as possible and that's
it now let's finish these bad boys the
italian one goes into a true 750 degree
pizza oven and the american one into a
hot home of it so for the american pie
you'll need to preheat a baking steel or
pizza stone in the middle of your oven
around 500 degrees fahrenheit for at
least 30 to 45 minutes before starting
once done flour pizza peel generously
grab one dough piece plop it down onto
your work surface flour your dough
generously then start by punching your
dough down in the center working your
way out to create a border about a
quarter of an inch wide then pick the
dough up drip it over your closed fists
and rotate the dough around gently
stretching as you go until you get a 13
to 14 inch pie layer on a couple
tablespoons of your sauce starting in
the center spreading in little circles
working away to the edge until the pie
is evenly beautifully coated like this
separately we have a cheese mixture of
two cups low moisture mozzarella two
cups monterey jack and a half a cup of
parmigiano-reggiano and i don't care if
this is the american or italian version
it's fresh grated now that's tossed
together beautifully and sprinkled over
your pizza to your heart's desire now
load that into your oven onto your
baking steel close and let it bake for
five to seven minutes or until the edges
get a nice deep golden brown and the
cheese is bubbly melted pull that out
and not gonna lie this thing looks
pretty good dang good now hold your
horses it's italian time shaping and
saucing is the exact same here except
this time you'll stretch this to no more
than a 10 to 12 inch pie spread on your
sauce and then add nice little chunks of
fresh buffalo mozzarella big chunk here
small chunk there have fun with it a
couple of torn leaves of fresh basil
wait a minute josh you can't cook base
on the pizza that'll kill the flavor
listen sweetheart if this is done
traditionally and cooked quickly enough
then yes it will lose a little flavor
but it will also lightly perfume the
pizza with that basil scent now
optionally hit that with a glug of extra
virgin olive oil move it into a 750
degree pizza oven cook for 30 seconds
turn it halfway and cook for another 20
to 35 seconds take it out and that is a
goddamn gorgeous pie now to finish we're
gonna add some fresh torn basil leaves
to bolster our now newly perfumed pizza
now side by side sure they're from two
different parts of the world but despite
the differences maybe they can both see
the beauty in each other but is there a
winner let's find out pizza court is in
session mamma mia we have two different
pizzas they both look extraordinarily
different let's begin with the smell
this one kind of loses the smell test
you've got the garlic the fresh tomato
sauce you smell the char the smoke on
this is mostly just cheese i'm picking
up not a bad thing but i prefer this one
it's good it's exactly what you think a
new york pizza is going to taste like
roughly right caramelized cheese this
sauce is a little spicy a little sweet i
like it i love it
it's gonna be a bite i'm just gonna be
straight up this to me is better period
end of story sorry new yorkers i already
whoa whoa stop i know you're freaking
out well he didn't make it properly
look been all over new york and had
plenty of pizzas been all over italy and
had plenty of pieces i'm making both of
these pizzas so i'm using all of my
professional knowledge to tell you i
like this one more personal preference
because this has more depth of flavor
there's more layers to it i like that
it's not so just heavy and late and it's
balanced given either of these choices
i'm not going to be upset because
they're both equally delicious in their
own way but we'll bring in some other
representatives let the line begin
[Music]
i love new york i'm a big fan my father
is from new york okay so i'm sorry the
italian one's the winner they
technically are the og so they deserve
it but new york we still have love we
still have heart for you and you have
your place in this world you wanna know
what else has a place in this world
b-roll
[Music]
do
[Music]
you
